# SCIP_PythonImageProcessing
Self-paced instructional programs to teach Python-based image processing. Written for Google’s Colaboratory (“Colab”) platform. Each module is a self-contained Jupyter notebook with text and images explaining the purpose of the module, links to papers and videos covering the topic, and a sequence of code segments and their output, to teach programming concepts and methods. Please note, when you download the code you might have to change the pointers to the image and video files. The test and training images are zip compressed for the files are too large to save in github uncompressed (25Mb limit), so you will need to download and unzip them. The video of plankton swimming useful for tracking, detection and classification has been split into two parts (planktonWhite_1920_1080_part1 and part2). The parts can merged (concatinated) back into one video using FFMPEG (see https://shotstack.io/learn/use-ffmpeg-to-concatenate-video/).  

# Description of Modules
Theses modules are a set of Colab notebooks to support student learning in the field of image processing. The notebooks are part of a course titled "Introduction to Optical Engineering for the Biological Sciences." Modules 1-3 of the course are designed as self-learning primers, with modules 1-2 specifically designed as a workbook (with answers) to promote active learning. Module 3 is a standalone exercise workbook. These three modules together are designed to bring novice users to a level where they can start working on their own independent research project. Each module is expected to take about four hours of independent learning, and students can seek guidance from mentors if they get stuck. Module 4 is intended to provide further learning on numerical calculations using Python. Modules 5-6 are designed for more advanced learners who want to apply the knowledge gained in the course to their independent research project. Overall, the modules are designed in a way that allows students to progress from beginner to advanced levels in image processing and to gain the necessary skills to conduct independent research projects in the field.

# Recommended Setup and Usage
Faculty members should create a copy of the modules on Google CoLab and share them with their students. Unzipped images and the videos (including the merged planktonWhite_1920_1080.mp4 video) should be saved in a separate file directory named "Data" and copied into CoLab.  The permissions should be set so that each student can create their own notebook from the shared copy. This will allow students to work on their own individual copies of the modules without affecting the original version.  
